README.md, before:

# Introduction

See [BEST-PRACTICES.md](BEST-PRACTICES.md) for repository layout and coding best practices. Particularly, this repository has been setup to use [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) for Python dependency management and [renv](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/) for R dependency management. Additionally, a [Conda](https://conda.io/)-compatible tool (such as [micromamba](https://mamba.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user_guide/micromamba.html), [mamba](https://mamba.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html) or [conda](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/stable/user-guide/install/download.html#anaconda-or-miniconda)) can be used to set up compatible versions of R, Python and Poetry if these are not already available on the system.

Thus, to get the project running, do the following:

1. Ensure you have compatible versions of R, Python and Poetry available on the system. If you have a conda-compatible tool, you can also use that to install these in an isolated environment, e.g. through `[micromamba/mamba/conda] create -f environment.yml -p ./.venv`. If you have Micromamba, you can also get the exact versions of the packages stored in `conda-lock.yml` through `micromamba create -n ./.venv -f conda-lock.yml` (If you want to do this using the other conda tools, you can install [Conda lock](https://github.com/conda-incubator/conda-lock) and run `conda-lock install -p ./.venv conda-lock.yml`).
2. Install R dependencies with `Rscript -e 'renv::restore()'`
3. Install Python dependencies with `poetry install`

For quick-start introductions on how to use the data in practice from code, look at [`src/example_user/example_analysis.Rmd`](src/example_user/example_analysis.md) and[`src/example_user/example_analysis.ipynb`](src/example_user/example_analysis.ipynb).

Commit message:

update dependencies, migrate to uv from Poetry

README.md, after:

# Introduction

See [BEST-PRACTICES.md](BEST-PRACTICES.md) for repository layout and coding best practices. Particularly, this repository has been setup to use [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) for Python dependency management and [renv](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/) for R dependency management. Additionally, a [Conda](https://conda.io/)-compatible tool (such as [micromamba](https://mamba.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user_guide/micromamba.html), [mamba](https://mamba.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html) or [conda](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/stable/user-guide/install/download.html#anaconda-or-miniconda)) can be used to set up compatible versions of R, Python and uv if these are not already available on the system.

Thus, to get the project running, do the following:

1. Ensure you have compatible versions of R and uv available on the system.
2. Install R dependencies with `Rscript -e 'renv::restore()'`
3. Install Python dependencies with `uv sync`

For quick-start introductions on how to use the data in practice from code, look at [`src/example_user/example_analysis.Rmd`](src/example_user/example_analysis.md) and[`src/example_user/example_analysis.ipynb`](src/example_user/example_analysis.ipynb).
